All right so here's the challenge.
We know how to do things on a regular
interval like change the number on
a screen, we know how to fetch data change
a number on a screen not that impressive.
However, there you can see a world and
this is where I had to implement this last
week, which is like cool, fetch the data.
But then fetch it again,
every so often, right?
Like every 30 seconds every minute.
Like if you're working on like,
let's say a dashboard right?
Maybe you have long pole and
we have WebSockets maybe you don't, right?
So depending on what you have available
you might have to take different
techniques so one is simply to refetch at
some kind of reasonable interval, right.
So how would we combine a little bit
of what we saw with starting and
stopping observable with theoretically,
pull up some data and
then every so on and so forth,
refresh and reload that data, right.
That is definitely a probably more
realistic use case then a counter,
right but effectively under the hood,
it's just a counter, right?
It's the same concept.
It's just sometimes you guys
snap two things together for
to be somewhat impressive.
So, okay, how would this work?
I'm going to move my error back in
because the one of the reasons why
I had it in here so I can make this
one kind of contiguous piece of logic.
So we have this ability to theoretically
to fetch from fetch to fetch some
data this seems like a great
candidate especially because if you
find a world where observable
is getting a little gnarly.
Because it's getting kind of big you do
the same thing you do with any other piece
of code.
You take your big ugly piece of code and
you break it into smaller
uglier pieces of code and then you
hide them in different files, right?
And that is how you develop software.
So, let's take this logic of fetching cuz
we're gonna let do it more than once.
We'll say fetchData.
That seems like a great name for this.
And we can go ahead and
we can pop this in here and
we'll grab all of this logic
that should be it right, yep.
All this logic here and
we'll pop it into that function.
Great, awesome.
So now our exhaust map
really becomes this.
This is what we're dealing with
whenever they hit the fetch button,
right we're simply exhaust mapping
this factory function that
will return an observable, right?
Very similar to what we saw,
when we returned one from throttling.
But it's same thing you do
with a map on an array.
So we've got that.
This fetch button seems good, but
instead of having it immediately trigger,
we're going to start the process have at
a regular cadence fetching that data and
refreshing it.
So we'll go and
set like we've seen this before we saw it
earlier where we can map to true
in this case let's make sure
the VS code likes me today yep
map to is available sweet.
And then the other button is what
is the stop button this time?
So we'll call that stop button,
Leaving spell false right this time, so
now we've got very similar to what you
all implemented with the counter before.
Right we have the ability to emit
true events and false events.
What's the next step?
I need both of these
>> Merge them.
>> Merge them, right?
Let's call it I don't know a facts stream.
Naming things in computer science is hard.
We'll merge the fetch event and
the staff event.
And we'll pipe them.
So now we'll get both of these.
So exhaust map because we only
wanted to deal with one at a time,
but in this case,
these will be synchronous.
But what is the correct?
If I want to switch between fetching and
not fetching what kind
of map should I use?
>> Switch.
>> Switch, right?
I will care about the most recent one.
I don't care if I use a merge map
I'll keep making more streams, right?
Every time I start and stop, I'll create
that many more nevers or fetch events.
So what we want is a we
want is a switch map so
we only care about the last
time they said start or
stop we don't care what happened
in the past we live in the now.
We deal with the current situation so
switch map we'll call it like, should I or
should fetch seems more confident.
Cool, and let's see if they should fetch.
Does it go right?
Should I fetch but I don't this is
a coach's job to figure out mine.
And if they should fetch, then what we
want to do is return a timer that fires
immediately because they hit the button.
Let's not interval will wait that amount
of time before the first event is emitted
timer fires immediately and then again
at whatever cadence you tell it to.
So timer fire right now.
And then again in five seconds,
every five seconds, so
we'll say pipe and
I really, I could do this,
subscriber's gonna be
the final event in this case.
What I really need to do now is clean up
the file fax and the error message every
time, right, because this case we
want to hide them and replace them.
And I want to clear the error message out
like this fetch is only gonna give us
the final value of the subscribers
only give us the final value,
that's not useful for us anymore so.
So what we'll do is we'll
pipe in will say tap.
Clear the errors, also tap and
I could do these both in the same.
I just chose not to.
And now this is where we'll put that
exhaust map that we had before.
So, when they should be
fetching immediately,
then every five seconds we'll clean up
the UI, and we will go get new facts.
Right now we could theoretically be like,
actually,
I want to keep the facts until
we get the new ones cool.
You can do that later and
if we should not be fetching
Switch them to just a moment of silence,
right?
And so now we have the stream
that goes switch back and forth.
Again, it's merging it's two sources
are the start and the stop button.
So the fetch and the stop button.
Based on that, it is either going to point
us an observable that is gonna keep making
that API request.
And the cool part about this is not
only is it gonna create the API request,
but it has all that retry and
error catching logic as well right?
Or if they say I'm no longer
interested in getting new dog facts,
that's a personal choice I respect
that then we switch them to the never
stream a silence, so they can talk
all back and forth between this.
So we don't need that anymore.
So we'll say our back stream,
I'll subscribe Add facts in this case so
whenever a value comes
through which again,
in the off case it will
never come through.
Thank you VS code in the fact stream
nothing will ever come through so
there's nothing to add to the page.
If I used empty instead it would
technically omit nothing then complete,
that's not what I want I just want
radio silence until I switch back
to some of the values.
So is this what always blows up,
which is not what I want in this case.
And I might want to keep some of the, I
guess I'm not showing there in this case.
So the code that I had before
was probably useful but
let's find we'll make it successful.
We can change it later if we want.
The code that I had
before it was like okay,
if it's an error show
the error I just said like,
no matter what are the facts if you get
this error object, things go poorly again.
Well, we can switch that back.
But we can also make the API fail.
All right, let's see.
All right, so I get some dog facts.
I think it still had a delay on it.
They clear out.
I get new ones.
This API still has a delay.
Like I said before, we could choose to,
wait until we got the new ones,
and then show them, that's again, how?
That's when you start to play around
the order of operations here, and
you basically have all
the tools necessary to do that.
So you could theoretically, immediately,
you could even do in the subscribe.
I have new facts, go clear out
the other ones as shown on the page.
But if I took out the delay,
we can see it as well.
So let's make a regular API again.
And so what's cool about this is now I
have complete control with just regular
JavaScript objects.
It's not like, okay, set this interval
clear this interval on mount,
on load I have this stream.
I can listen to it when
I'm ready to listen to it.
I can stop listening when I wanna stop
listen to I'm not thinking about intervals
or anything like that.
Again, like in a framework where you
might make this kinda interesting for
yourself is component did mount
component will unmount use effect?
What have you,
like start listening stop listening.
So here they'll just kind of
refresh at a regular interval.
We have dog facts
streaming at you live and
then we can stop it and
they will stop fetching, right?
So we combined a lot of concepts here.
Let's just kind of,
let's celebrate ourselves for a second and
talk about what we did.
We have a fetch situation
where not only will it catch
an error and display,
some UI, it will retry.
It'll handle all of the kind of
different error states around that.
We can then also take that,
and set it to work on timers.
We took everything we learned about
the counter, and setting timers and
starting and stopping flows.
We took everything we learned about async.
And, we put them together into like
basically one kind of concept.
So, you can start to take
these different ideas and
snap them together to solve different
problems that might come up.